# plant-attack
Video Demo:
Description: Plant attack is a video game created in GameMaker that is set to reproduce the "8-bit" arcade style games
that were created in the '90s. The purpose of this game is to hit plants with your robot and avoid getting hit by the attrocious green bushes. I chose some minimalist sprites in order to create the effect of an old arcade game. I am passionate about how old games were made and I have a particular interest in arcade games. Firstly I have created 2 rooms: one that consists of the whole map, and another for the starting point of the game and 7 objects: 2 types of bullets (one regular single bullet and one type of three bullets at the same time), one player, a weapon changer, one bush which is the enemy of the object, and two transitions between the enemy being healthy and then dead. Following this step I started the proper coding beginning with the player. I have coded the player to move according to the arrows on the keyboard and to rotate the target (in fact the image representing the player) via mouse cursor. Secondly I have created the bullets. I have setted them to leave from the direction of the player image and a certain range. I've set the speed to 16. I have also implemented to get them destroyed after they leave the screen. The third step was to add the enemies. I have programed them to have a number of hitpoints, and the bullets to reduce the hitpoints on collision. The second type of bullets were coded to replace the old ones for few seconds only after the player collided with the weapon changers which are randomly spreaded along the map. I have also created an artificial spawner, because in the coding reality that wasn't an actual spawner. The only thing that it does is to time the seconds before the actual enemy sprites were spawned. The enemies also have a random spawn point that I also have created. The last step is that I also added a text that keeps changing as the player eliminates the enemies (the score). DISCLAIMER: The sprites that I used are already designed by GameMaker app.
